README.md, before:

vim-smoothie: Smooth scrolling for Vim done right🥤
===================================================

This (neo)vim plugin makes scrolling nice and _smooth_. Find yourself
completely lost every time you press `Ctrl-D` or `Ctrl-F`? You might want to
give _vim-smoothie_ a try!

![scrolling demo](demo.gif)

Installation
------------

You will need reasonably new Vim or Neovim with timers support. Vim 8+ or
Neovim 0.3+ should do the trick.

Install the plugin using your favorite plugin manager, for example [vim-plug]:
```
Plug 'psliwka/vim-smoothie'
```

Customization
-------------

_vim-smoothie_ aims for sane defaults, and should work out-of-the-box for most
users. In some cases, however, you might want to customize its behavior, by
adjusting one or more of the following variables in your `vimrc`:

* `g:smoothie_enabled`: Set it to `0` (or `v:false`) to disable vim-smoothie.
  Useful for temporary disabling the plugin, f.ex. when running Vim over
  extremely slow connections.
* `g:smoothie_no_default_mappings`: If true, will prevent the plugin from
  overriding default scrolling keys (`Ctrl-D` and friends). You are then
  supposed to bind keys you like by yourself. See `plugin/smoothie.vim` to
  discover available mappings.
* `g:smoothie_experimental_mappings`: Set this to true to enable additional,
  experimental mappings (currently `gg` and `G`). It is not recommended to
  enable them unless you're ready to fight potential bugs.

Alternatives, a.k.a. why create yet another plugin
--------------------------------------------------

There are many other Vim plugins attempting to resolve the same problem. The
most interesting one is [sexy_scroller.vim], which covers way more movement
commands than vim-smoothie will ever do. Unfortunately, it also suffers from
frequent visual artifacts, such as erratic screen jumps and animation
jittering, impairing visual orientation and breaking the user experience. Many
of these bugs are nearly impossible to fix due to the plugin's internal design.
Hence, vim-smoothie was born, focusing on stable, bug-free, _smooth_
experience, at a cost of smaller feature set.

The table below summarizes key differences between vim-smoothie and three other
popular smooth scrolling plugins I've used in the past: [sexy_scroller.vim],
[comfortable-motion.vim], and [vim-smooth-scroll].

|  | vim-smoothie | [sexy_scroller.vim] | [comfortable-motion.vim] | [vim-smooth-scroll] |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Supported commands | `^D` `^U` `^F` `^B` `gg`<sup>1</sup> `G`<sup>1</sup> | A lot❤️ | `^D` `^U` `^F` `^B` | `^D` `^U` `^F` `^B` |
| Erratic screen jumps and jittering now and then | Nope | A lot💔 | Nope | Nope |
| Scrolling distance is proportional to window height | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Easing out (soft-stop) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| Supports setting `[count]` before movement (f.ex. `3^F` to scroll down 3 pages) | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Respects `scroll` and `startofline` options | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| `^D` and `^U` behave correctly near buffer ends, just moving the cursor instead of scrolling the window | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Terminal bell support | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Pun in name | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |

Notes:
1. these commands are experimental and disabled by default

Known issues/incompatibilities
------------------------------

vim-smoothie strives to remain fully compatible with native commands it
replaces. That is, every command should still behave exactly as described in
`:help scroll.txt`. There are still some deviations from the original behavior,
which hopefully will be addressed in the future:

* `^F` and `^B` should respect the `window` option.
* Native commands may move in a smarter way over wrapped/folded lines.


Credits
-------

Created by [Piotr Śliwka](https://github.com/psliwka). Improved by
[Klas Segeljakt](https://github.com/segeljakt) and
[Subhaditya Nath](https://github.com/subnut).

Many thanks to authors of [vim-smooth-scroll], [comfortable-motion.vim], and
[sexy_scroller.vim] for inspiration!

License
-------

[MIT](LICENSE)

[vim-plug]: https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug
[vim-smooth-scroll]: https://github.com/terryma/vim-smooth-scroll
[comfortable-motion.vim]: https://github.com/yuttie/comfortable-motion.vim
[sexy_scroller.vim]: https://github.com/joeytwiddle/sexy_scroller.vim

Commit message:

Do major codebase refactoring
Improve reliability, support more commands, hopefully close a few GitHub
tickets. Should not break backward compatibility unless one has used
private or experimental parts of the plugin's interface.

README.md, after:

vim-smoothie: Smooth scrolling for Vim done right🥤
===================================================

This (neo)vim plugin makes scrolling nice and _smooth_. Find yourself
completely lost every time you press `Ctrl-D` or `Ctrl-F`? You might want to
give _vim-smoothie_ a try!

![scrolling demo](demo.gif)

Requirements
------------

You will need reasonably new Vim or Neovim. Vim 8.2.1978+ or Neovim 0.3+ should
do the trick.

Additionally, since this plugins due to its nature causes frequent screen
redraws, it is recommended to use a fast terminal emulator, ideally with GPU
acceleration. I personally recommend [kitty].

Installation
------------

Install the plugin using your favorite plugin manager, for example [vim-plug]:
```vim
Plug 'psliwka/vim-smoothie'
```

Customization
-------------

_vim-smoothie_ aims for sane defaults, and should work out-of-the-box for most
users. In some cases, however, you might want to customize its behavior, by
adjusting one or more of the following variables in your `vimrc`:

* `g:smoothie_enabled`: Set it to `0` (or `v:false`) to disable vim-smoothie.
  Useful for temporary disabling the plugin, f.ex. when running Vim over
  extremely slow connections.
* `g:smoothie_no_default_mappings`: If true, will prevent the plugin from
  overriding default scrolling keys (`Ctrl-D` and friends). You are then
  supposed to bind keys you like by yourself. Example mapping:
  ```vim
  nnoremap <unique> <C-D> <cmd>call smoothie#do("<C-D>") <CR>
  vnoremap <unique> <C-D> <cmd>call smoothie#do("<C-D>") <CR>
  ```
* `g:smoothie_remapped_commands`: Instead of disabling all mappings with
  `g:smoothie_no_default_mappings`, you can disable them selectively by
  overriding this list with a subset of commands that you'd like to map.
  Alternatively, you can add extra commands here if you fell extra adventurous
  ;)
* `g:smoothie_experimental_mappings`: Set this to true to enable additional,
  experimental mappings (currently `gg` and `G`). It is not recommended to
  enable them unless you're ready to fight potential bugs.

Alternatives, a.k.a. why create yet another plugin
--------------------------------------------------

There are many other Vim plugins attempting to resolve the same problem. The
most interesting one is [sexy_scroller.vim], which covers way more movement
commands than vim-smoothie will ever do. Unfortunately, it also suffers from
frequent visual artifacts, such as erratic screen jumps and animation
jittering, impairing visual orientation and breaking the user experience. Many
of these bugs are nearly impossible to fix due to the plugin's internal design.
Hence, vim-smoothie was born, focusing on stable, bug-free, _smooth_
experience, at a cost of smaller feature set.

The table below summarizes key differences between vim-smoothie and three other
popular smooth scrolling plugins I've used in the past: [sexy_scroller.vim],
[comfortable-motion.vim], and [vim-smooth-scroll].

|  | vim-smoothie | [sexy_scroller.vim] | [comfortable-motion.vim] | [vim-smooth-scroll] |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Supported commands | All window scrolling commands (`^D` `^U` `^F` `^B` `zz` `zt` `zb` etc.), `gg`<sup>1</sup> `G`<sup>1</sup> | Almost all window and cursor movement commands ❤️ | `^D` `^U` `^F` `^B` | `^D` `^U` `^F` `^B` |
| Erratic screen jumps and jittering now and then | Nope | A lot💔 | Nope | Nope |
| Scrolling distance is proportional to window height | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Easing out (soft-stop) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| Supports setting `[count]` before movement (f.ex. `3^F` to scroll down 3 pages) | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Respects `scroll` and `startofline` options | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| `^D` and `^U` behave correctly near buffer ends, just moving the cursor instead of scrolling the window | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Terminal bell support | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Pun in name | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |

Notes:
1. these commands are experimental and disabled by default

Credits
-------

Created by [Piotr Śliwka](https://github.com/psliwka). Improved by
[Klas Segeljakt](https://github.com/segeljakt) and
[Subhaditya Nath](https://github.com/subnut).

Many thanks to authors of [vim-smooth-scroll], [comfortable-motion.vim], and
[sexy_scroller.vim] for inspiration!

License
-------

[MIT](LICENSE)

[vim-plug]: https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug
[vim-smooth-scroll]: https://github.com/terryma/vim-smooth-scroll
[comfortable-motion.vim]: https://github.com/yuttie/comfortable-motion.vim
[sexy_scroller.vim]: https://github.com/joeytwiddle/sexy_scroller.vim
[kitty]: https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty
